---
layout: post
title: "003: Jabref - Reference management software"
date: 2018-03-07 01:00:00
author: Admin
categories: podcast 
#- blog 
img: FFS003_header.png
thumb: FFS003_thumb.png
podcast_link: 
podcast_link_ogg: 
podcast_file_size:  MB
podcast_file_size_ogg:  MB
podcast_duration: ""
podcast_length: 
podcast_length_ogg: 
podcast_guid: 
podcast_subtitle: An interview with Oliver Kopp and Jörg Lenhard
podcast_description: In Episode 2, we interview Oliver Kopp and Jörg Lenhard about the reference management tool Jabref.
---
In Episode 2, we interview Oliver Kopp and Jörg Lenhard about Jabref:

JabRef is an open-source, cross-platform citation and reference management tool licensed under the MIT license, which works on Windows, Linux and Mac OS X. It is available free of charge and is actively developed. JabRef supports you in every step of your research work. Stay on top of your literature: JabRef helps you to collect and organize sources, find the paper you need and discover the latest research. The native file format used by JabRef is BibTeX, the standard LaTeX bibliography format. Bibliographies generated by LaTeX and BibTeX from a BibTeX file can be formatted to suit any reference list specifications by the use of different BibTeX and BibLaTeX style files.

About Oliver Koop : 

[Oliver Kopp](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6962-4290) studied Software Engineering and defended his PhD in the field of cross-partner business process management. Currently, he researches as PostDoc in the area of [architectural decision records](https://adr.github.io/). For him, the key success factor for turning research into practice is sustainable open source software. Thus, it is a natural fit that he is project lead at [Eclipse Winery](http://eclipse.github.io/winery/), which provides a framework for research on modelling TOSCA-based (Cloud) applications.

About Jörg Lenhard : 

[Jörg Lenhard](https://joerglenhard.wordpress.com/) is a post-doctoral research fellow at the Software Engineering Research Group of Karlstad University, Sweden. He obtained his PhD in Computer Science from the University of Bamberg, Germany, where he also completed his Bachelor and Master studies, along with several exchanges to the University of Skövde and the Blekinge Institute of Technology in Sweden. Jörg's passion lies in the development of high-quality software, which is where his research and teaching activities are centered. This is also the reason why he participates in open source software development and JabRef. Next to his academic publications, he recently authored a text book on code quality for Java beginners titled [Java by Comparison: Become a Java Craftsman in 70 Examples](https://pragprog.com/book/javacomp/java-by-comparison).

Listen to this episode here or add our [rss feed](https://flossforscience.github.io/feed.xml) to your favourite podcast application. 

<iframe src="//player.blubrry.com/id/31221743/#time-0&darkOrLight-Light&shownotes-000000&shownotesBackground-f68a1d&download-ffffff&downloadBackground-384452&subscribe-000000&subscribeBackground-f68a1d&share-ffffff&shareBackground-384452" scrolling="no" width="100%" height="138px" frameborder="0"></iframe>

You can download this episode as [MP3]() or [OGG](). 
